Home
…
European approach to artificial intelligence
Code of Practice on Transparency of AI-generated Content
EU Icons for labelling AI-generated content
EU Icons for labelling AI-generated content
Page Contents
What content needs to be labelled as AI-generated or manipulated?
Limitations and exceptions
The EU icons
How to display the EU icons?
Deployers of generative AI systems can use the EU set of icons to label certain AI-generated content, in accordance with the AI Act transparency rules.

The EU has developed a set of icons that creators, publishers and other deployers of generative AI systems may use to label their AI-generated content. These icons are freely available and a integral part of Section 2 of the Code of Practice on marking and labelling of AI-generated content.

What content needs to be labelled as AI-generated or manipulated?
The icons are intended to help natural persons exposed to such content to recognise, in a clear and distinguishable manner, that the content has been artificially generated or manipulated. This obligation supports public trust, reduces the risk of misinformation and the informed viewing and reading by natural persons of all sorts of content.

Not all AI-generated or manipulated content needs to be labelled. The disclosure requirement under the AI Act covers only AI-generated or manipulated content. The icons support compliance with Article 50(4) of the AI Act, which requires deployers of AI systems to disclose:

Deep fakes - AI-generated or manipulated image, audio, or video content that resembles existing persons, objects, places, entities or events and would falsely appear to a person to be authentic or truthful.
AI-generated or manipulated text published to inform the public on matters of public interest, which did not undergo human review or editorial control and where editorial responsibility was not assumed by any legal or natural person.
Limitations and exceptions
Evidently artistic, creative, satirical, fictional and analogous works
Where deep fake content forms part of an evidently artistic, creative, satirical, fictional or analogous work or programme, the transparency obligations are limited to disclosure in an appropriate manner that does not hamper the display or enjoyment of the work.

Authorised by law
The disclosure obligation does not apply where the use of deepfakes or published text on matters of public interest is authorised by law to detect, prevent, investigate or prosecute criminal offences.

Human review or editorial control for text
The disclosure obligation does not apply where the AI-generated text has undergone a process of human review or editorial control and where a natural or legal person holds editorial responsibility for the publication of the content.  

The EU icons
The Icons have 4 variations: black, white, black with 50% transparency and white with 50% transparency. You can download zip files with all the icons in all variations in SVG and PNG formats.

The icons have undergone user-testing, and the results have informed their design. Notably, performance improved across all measures when the basic icon was accompanied by a text label (e.g. modified).

Icon

When to use

Use case examples

Basic icon



When AI was involved in the creation of deep fake content (image, audio, video) or published text or when a custom text label or interactive second layer is implemented

Deep fake video with the text label “voices generated with” followed by the basic icon

Fully AI-Generated



When the entire deep fake content (image, audio, video) or text is fully generated by AI with no human-created elements or human editorial control (apart from prompting)

Fully AI-generated deep fake videos with politicians or fictional events

Fully AI-composed music or art*

AI-generated news summaries

Partially AI-Modified



When pre-existing, human-made content was partially modified with AI turning it into a deep fake or text on matters of public interest 

A face in an authentic photograph is swapped with a face of a politician using AI

Authentic photographs of an empty apartment is furnished using AI 

*May enjoy limited disclosure requirements for artistic, creative, fictional or satirical works

The use of these EU icons is optional, but the labelling requirements under Article 50 AI Act are not. The use of these icons does not establish legal compliance by itself. Deployers remain responsible for ensuring that any disclosure meets the requirements of Article 50 AI Act. Signatories of the Code of Practice on marking and labelling of AI-generated content must duly implement the measures it contains.

How to display the EU icons?
Check section 2 of the Code of Practice on marking and labelling of AI-generated content for the detailed placement specifications that signatories commit to implement. For further guidance, contact the AI Act Service Desk.

Below you can find a summary, not a complete overview, of the rules to display the icons:

The icon should be clearly perceivable and distinguishable at the latest at the time of first exposure of a natural person to the deep fake or published text.
The icon should be placed where no intervening overlay elements exist.
The icon should be directly embedded into the deep fake or published text (except for creative works), unless equivalent alternatives are available such as a user interface overlay. The icon must be visible when content is reshared or downloaded.
Users of the icon are encouraged to implement accessibility measures:

The icon should be in a clearly visible size.
Any accompanying label should use plain language and avoid jargon, confusing wording and abbreviations other than “AI”.
If possible, the icon should be readable by assistive technologies using alt text or ARIA labels indicating that the content is AI-generated or manipulated.
If the disclosure appears for a limited time, it should remain visible long enough to be read and understood by users with cognitive or processing difficulties.
If additional information is provided through a second interactive layer, the icon should clearly indicate that further information is available and the second layer content shall be navigable using assistive technologies.
Licence
These icons are made publicly available for everyone to use freely, without the need for attribution to the Commission or the AI Office. However, signatories of the code of practice should use the icon in accordance with its placement specifications. Usage of these icons by non-signatories of the code should not be construed as signaling of their adherence to the code.